From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 54. Recorded live
Thursday, February 3rd, 2011. Support for Hanselman
it's provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forums
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with Damien Edwards about new
features in asp.net web forms.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes web forums.
The reports of my death
have been greatly exaggerated at
as the title of today's
show. And we've got Damien
Edwards. How's it going, Damien?
Very well. Thank you, Scott.
You know, we actually had
had your buddy take him
on a couple of months
ago, talking about web forums
and stuff. You guys work
together on the web forms,
MPP project before you went
to work for Microsoft. Is
that right? That's correct. Yeah.
So you guys are smart
guys. I mean you're advanced,
advanced, alpha, alpha geeks. I
think of you guys that
way. I mean, if I
may be so bold, you
know, I mean, you, you
like your things a certain
way and you're very opinionated
and in the way that
you program and, you know,
I think there's some people
who might have a misunderstanding
about web forms and web
forms, why you would even
bother with web forms. There's
so many, there's so much
hype right now around MVC,
but if you look at
the stats, I think that,
you know, probably big, big
numbers, 80% of people are
still using 90% are still
using, still using web forms.
Even though NBC is the,
kind of the new, sexy
thing to talk about. Why
do you think that the
alpha keeps you going in
one direction and why is
web forums getting a bad,
bad rap? That's a, that's
a difficult question. I think
the alpha geeks tend to
pick on many different things
about web forms. I mean,
webforms is very good at
doing a particular types of
things and doing those very
well. And if it suits
your purposes, then there's really
nothing wrong with using that.
Then coming back to why
people sometimes may pick on
web forms for various reasons.
We have to remember that
web forms really was designed
to be an abstraction over
the top of the coal
roll protocols of building or
involved when you're building web
applications. So it really abstracts
away the idea of HDP
of doing get some posts
and even to a large
extent to dealing with the
web browser. I mean, we
really don't see an awful
lot of HTML. We don't
see a lot of JavaScript
that the developer has to,
right, unless they want to
get under the covers. And
I think a lot of
people, when they, when they
see that obstruction Stott Lake,
that they, they use that
as a reason for putting
the whole sort of platform
down, whether that's right or
wrong, I guess will depend
on your circumstances. But I
think those are the sorts
of things that people have
in the past picked on
web forms for. Well, so
are you saying that there's
a PR there are, there
are, there are not problems
with web forms or are
you saying that there are
problems with alpha geeks and
those personality quirks caused them
to pick out a web
forms? I'm trying to understand
like which direction you're coming
at this from. I think
there are problems with any
platform or framework depending on
what direction you're coming from.
And so certainly for doing
certain types of things, web
forms can get in your
way. If you want to
be able to have certain
types of control or get
certain advantages out of using
sort of the pre-canned elements,
you'll find that there are
restrictions and caveats that come
along with doing that. That
was the resurgence of, I
guess, in the last few
years of, of web programming,
treating web programming as actual
web programming and not dealing
with some obstruction over the
top and the resurgence in
things like all of the,
the, the rise of things
like mobile devices, where having
a real control over mock
up, and what's going across
the wire from your browser
to the server, people were
writing into these, running into
these limitations, perhaps of web
forms when trying to build
applications using sort of the
top level paradigms that were
formed Springs, like server controls
and pages. And we're ripe
for looking for an alternative
and MVC sort of gave
that alternative. And it really
does shine in those areas
where perhaps we're forms isn't
the best suited candidate. Do
you think that when they
made web forms that it
was targeted at, I mean,
people always say like it
was targeted at the visual
basic programmer at the dragon
drop button programmer. Is it
fair to make judgments about
a programmers kind of inherent
ability or current skill level
when thinking about it in
the context of a framework
like web forms is good
for beginner programmers in such
and such as good for
advanced programmers, or is it,
does that have nothing to
do with it? I think
that's more about what the
particular and what the OnRamp
at that particular platform looks
like. I mean, how high
is the concept count for
someone coming into this platform
for the first time and
is there an easy way
for them to ease into,
into building for that platform
without having to learn a
whole bunch of different things
before like an, even an
output, a very simple sort
of UI from that, from
that platform in terms of
web forms. I mean, it's
very easy to do the
hello world example. It's very
easy to get some data
from a database and display
that the screen with, you
know, in his day was
a fairly rich experience with
agreed that allows sorting and
pays posts back for paging
and those types of things,
standard sort of business application
UI, for sure. But if
you were to try and
build that from scratch, with
roar, HTML, JavaScript, and some
type of service, so programming,
it would take you a
lot longer than dragging a
couple of controls on not
configuring some properties and hitting
F five and visual studio.
So I, I'm not sure
whether it's, it's certainly valid
to judge the, the willing,
the suitable, whether a platform
is suitable or not for
various types of program is
based on the competencies or
not. But I think there's
certainly an element of truth
to the, to the assertion
that a web forms was
built to really help the
VB programmer in quotes. Yeah,
but not maybe language, but
kind of put it, yeah,
not the VB language, but
the prototypical visual basic programmer
of the early mid nineties
who You'll do a design
surface and event driven programming
and those types of things.
Right. But the thing that
I'm trying to get my
head around is that, is
it somehow let's say two
examples. Somebody takes a data
control and drags it from
visual studio onto the design
surface, hooks up a database
and they have a grid.
Another person does something from
the command line, generates the
exact same results and create
some code that does a
four loop that makes a
grid except they did it
using a scaffolding system. The
output is identical, you know,
effectively, but one of them
is an advanced is considered
an advanced program are doing
really cool stuff with a
new framework. And the other
one is just dragging and
dropping. Is it a matter
of programmer bigotry? The were
easy, but not too easy,
like a dragon, how is
dragging and dropping somehow less
noble than typing rake from
the command line? Oh, I
don't think it is again,
I'm, I'm a big exponent
of using the right tool
for the right job. And,
you know, and that includes
not just what you're trying
to output, but the know
the experiences and the, and
the efforts involved by the
people actually building the things.
And if those tools match
all those outcomes for the
thing that you're trying to
achieve, then I don't think
it's in anyone's place to
tell you that you're using
the wrong thing or that
what you are doing is
somehow inferior to what other
people are doing. I think
we as programmers tend to
be, I mean, as you
said before, yes, take them
and I fairly opinionated that
can be now, if you
look at our framework, we've,
we've made some opinionated decisions
about what's there and what's
not, but that's not to
say that. I think it's
developer's job to judge other
developers on these things. At
the end of the day,
we're all just trying to
do our jobs and to
write good code. Or even
if we're not trying to
write good code write code
that works. So I'm not
going to sit here and
tell people that doing this
thing is completely wrong, you
know, unless, unless I can,
I, I will have a
heated argument about it, but
I'm not about to tell
them that they're completely wrong,
that they should be doing
it this way without really
giving consideration to what it
is that they're trying to
achieve. Yeah. Yeah. It's funny
that people, people are still
teasing me about making the,
the website for the other
podcast that I do with
Rob Connery, this developer's life,
we made that website in
web matrix. And, you know,
there's been some gentle ribbing,
but having done that in
web matrix because people still
think that it was a
kind of a toy. And
we actually had Rob on
the show and talked about,
you know, the fun that
we had in making that.
I wonder if I had
built it in web forums,
if I would have been
teased from a different group,
I'm sure you would have.
I think, I, I think
no matter what technology you
choose, you would likely get
teased. I mean, maybe MVC
is the cool kids smoking
behind the bike sheds at
the moment. No, one's going
to pick on them, but
yeah, but everything else I
think is fair game. Well,
it's funny. I always talk
about the whole car versus
motorcycle analogy. The idea that
MVC is a motorcycle that
gives you lots of control
and it lets you feel
the, you know, feel the
road beneath you. And of
course you could fly off
the motorcycle and really hurt
yourself. But ultimately if you,
if you really want that
kind of magic of driving,
you know, use NVC use
a motorcycle and web forms
is the kind of the
minivan or the car. It's
got more cargo space and
it lets you take the
kids to the store. It
just doesn't look very good
like myself. Now that I've
got kids, I drive, I
like to call it a
crossover vehicle. That's that's man
speak for a swollen minivan.
And, but, you know, I
tell myself that it's okay,
but there's really nothing, nothing
necessarily wrong with that because
most people drive cars. Most
people use web forms. And
I know that in dotnet
at four, there was a
lot of stuff that was
added to web forums to
make it better. You know,
view's date got 30 or
40% smaller. You have the
ability to have CSS, like
basically change the rendering of
any control using advanced templating.
So even really old funky
controls, if people have forgotten
about like the ASP wizard
control and the, you know,
stuff like that, you could
make it output, you know,
dibs and Juelz and allies
and stuff like that. That's
fine. What's a, what's coming
next though. Everyone's saying that
all the, all the hype
is running VC, but what,
what do we know about
Envia but the next version
of web forums, and then
also, what can you do
with platforms today? You know,
Interesting if you bring it
up that people have this
perception that perhaps web forms
isn't being invested in, I
mean, you just, you just
pointed out that with our
latest release, which is coming
up to 12 months now,
so it's not even, I
think 10 months since we
released that we did, there
was a significant investment in
web forms in.net for, you
mentioned a couple of things
there. We did work about
controlling client IDs. And then
there was a lot of
work that went in sort
of@thebaseasp.net level, but web forms
got the advantage of as
well. Now for the next
version, we're really sort of
continuing on this idea of,
well, you know, asp.net is
a foundation framework. And then
on top of asp.net, CIT
other smaller frameworks that plug
into that, depending on how
you want to go about
building your applications. And from
time to time, there will
be things that get built
in one of those smaller
frameworks that shipped with that
framework. And then eventually it
sort of realized, well, you
know, this would be, this
is a really good concept
and it doesn't just fit
inside this framework. Perhaps we
could pull it across to
one of the other ones.
And so, as an example,
in the MVC world, we
have the idea of a
model binders, which makes a
lot of sense in NBC.
I mean, NBC is very
code focused and the idea
that you would use some
code to access your data
to, and then generate a
model that you give to
your view. But then when
that, the request from the
browser is coming back in,
you don't want to have
to do all that left
hand, right hand side code
to, to take the user
input and push that back
into your model. So we
have the concept of a
model binders do that for
you. So we're looking at
that concept of a web
forms and, and having a
look at what's required today
in web forms to say,
use something like in a
D framework code first, where
if I want to, if
I'm quite happy to write
code, to do my, my
model management in the middle
tier off to the database,
using something like ETF code
first, how do I go
about using that with web
forms? Well, today, if you
want to use a grid
view, you'd have a couple
of options. You could put
a grid view on your
page and then a drop
an object data source onto
the page next to it,
configure the grid view to
use that object data source.
And then you would have
to create another class that
the object data source is
going to look at, which
is the class that would
then have your code in
it that does the EOF
code first work. Then if
you needed to wire up
a certain inputs into those
methods, like your, your crud
methods that would exist on
that class, you would have
to go back into your
page markup and declare a
bunch of parameters on that
object, data source to pull
all of those values through.
So if you look at
the markup, I mean, you
can do all of this
with the designer that eventually
a lot of people will
have to jump in into
the mockup to configure this
stuff. And you'll see a
lot of markup in your
page, just that at the
end of the day, all
you want to be able
to do is call, you
know, my database context dot
customers, dot, get whatever. And
so we're looking at how
we can make that a
lot easier. So rather than
having to have, say an
object data source on the
page, you can just have
a grid view and just
point that directly at the
methods in your code behind
that are going to go
off and do whatever it
is you do to get
data. And then also take
care of some of that
left hand, right hand code
for you so that when
the user clicks the save
button, whether it's on a
grid view row or a
form view, edit template, the
values associated with that action
automatically bound. If you want
model bound, if you'd like
to the method that you've
declared as being say the
update method in that case.
So that's a case where
we're looking at bringing some
of those things across. Hi,
this is Scott coming to
you from another place in
time. Are you using agile
practices to manage your software
development? There's lots of tools
in the market that manage
the steps of a project,
but most of them focus
on individual roles, get ready
for a solution that caters
for the success of the
whole team. Guys at Tellerik
introduced team pulse. It's an
agile project management tool. That'll
help you gather ideas, estimate
plan, track progress in a
common workspace. Finally, companies, regardless
of their size can use
a lightweight and convenient tool
that makes all the stakeholders
work as a United team.
Even if they're in different
countries by combining intuitive user
interface and the power server
light team poles removes the
roadblocks that you typically face
and applying agile in an
effective manner, no more lost
data, no disparate systems, no
lack of critical analytics regarding
the health and philosophy project.
See if yourself get a
free copy for five users
in one project at tellerik.com/team
pulse. And please do thank
tolerance for supporting Hansel minutes
on their Facebook fan page,
facebook.com/t L E R I
K Keller. We do appreciate
it. They wouldn't be a
Hansel minutes if there wasn't
teller helping us. So yeah,
one of the things when
I'm running a lot of
web forums code that I
spent I am doing is
digging around in the HTP
requests. I mean, that's almost
half of the kinds of
code that I'm writing when
I'm messing around, like you
called it left hand, right
hand code. You know, that,
that idea that I want
to dig into the HTP
request a request form, request
a query string, pull that
stuff out and stick it
into my object and then
take that object and do
something with it. That's really
tedious code it's. It can
be a huge portion of
the, of the code behind.
So with model binding that
just kind of collapses, doesn't
it? It does. And I
think one of the other
things that people sort of
pick on web forms for
is the lack of testability.
And it's easy to see
that if, if you, if
you open up a general,
a typical code behind file
for an asp.net web forms
page you'll, you'll generally see
a lot of this type
of code. A lot of
is UI crud sort of
code. And it's very hard
to test because the, the,
the asp.net based classes for
web forms inherently aren't, markable,
they're, they're not easy to
substitute things for, to run
them outside of the asp.net
web forms, runtime. And so
if you wanted to make
those things testable, you have
to write a layer of
your own abstractions and then
move all that code out
into another class. And then
you have to have another
framework sitting there doing the
glue for you. So I
think model binders in the
context of web forms will
kind of help because any
code that you can remove
from your code behind is
a less code you had
to write and be less
code you have to test.
And so less code means
less bugs generally. Hmm. So
is this the kind of
thing that we're going to
see as a, as an
add on or a futures?
I mean, one of the
things that the asp.net team
has kind of done lately
is releasing new ad-ons to
things like MVC as, as
NBC futures. Is there a
web forms, futures where I
can use these kinds of
things today? Are there other
future web forms features that
someone could be playing with
after this podcast? Not, not
immediately. I mean, if you
go up to the ASP
net code Plex site today,
there is a web form
section. And I believe the
only thing in that web
forms future section at the
moment was the CSS sprites
prototype that we shipped last
year, which you can certainly
go in and have a
look at to get an
idea of some of the
things that we were thinking
about in terms of the
release mechanism for the things
that we're talking about now
at the moment, these are
all being talked about going
to the next version of
web forms. Now, web forms
we have to remember is
actually pot of asp.net. It's
not like MVC in that
the web forms, assemblies and
types are actually in the.net
framework base class library itself.
So unfortunately, when we want
to make changes to some
of these things, it can
be difficult for us to
do them out of band,
which is a term that
we use to say, when
we want to release something,
that's not part of the
main shipping vehicle for.net or
visual studio. Now that doesn't
mean we can't all the
time and date. If you,
if you cast your mind
back when we first released
the MSA Ajax framework in
version one that was done
as an out of band
on top of dotnet too
at the time. And then
eventually that roll back into
the framework in.net 3.5 service
pack one, I think now
this we're still in early
planning, so it's, it could
go either way, but at
the moment, it's the thoughts
are it would go into
the base in the next
version of the.net framework. But
that's not to say that
there won't be other things
that we can do for
web forms before that next
version of the framework comes
around. Do you think the
sprites thing will be, we'll
make it in there? I
mean, how many things that
make it into a future
is released make it into
the product and how do
you decide that? I think
it's, it's really, it's not
very different to any other
software planning mechanism or exercise.
I mean, I I've been
here for a year now.
And I think when I
came to Microsoft, I really
expected it to be different
in terms of me not
being a software engineer for
over 10 years. And I'd
worked in lots of very
big software projects, but all
web based on I was
a web developer and I
sort of came here expecting
it to somehow be different,
but I can tell you
that it's, it's not it's
we have a list of
features. We have a backlog.
If you'd like that, we
sort of keep adding to
it. As time goes over.
We, we, we collect customer
feedback. We talk to customers,
we talk amongst ourselves, we
prototype internally. And then there
comes a point when we
need to start locking down
features for whatever the release
or the next version of
what it is that we're
building is. And we go
through a process like any
other group of building software,
would we, you know, we
do a cost analysis of
how much it will cost
to build a specific feature.
What is, what do we
think the benefit to customers
is by doing that? How
does it fit in with
the strategy that we're trying
to, to adhere to? And
there's really nothing. I think
nothing magic that goes into
that process. And in terms
of how we're going to
make the decision this time,
it will be, we have
a stack ranked list of
features that we would like
to see in web forms.
We look at how many
resources we have and how
much time we have, and
then we draw a line
underneath where we can't do
any more work anymore. All
right. So there's a number
of things that are coming
in web forms. Then what
else do we have that
is moving over from MPC?
It seems like NVC is
revving quickly. It's being developed.
We're already on version three.
And because it's out of
band, that gives us the
ability to do that with
web forms. We're moving a
little bit more slowly, at
least in the short term,
are we bringing other features
over from MVC and incorporating
them into, into web forms
in the next version? So
one of the things that
webform, sorry, MVC introduced in
version three was the concept
of unobtrusive, Java script, both
in the forms of validation
and Ajax. And so for
the next version of web
forms, we're looking at bringing
across at least the validator
portion of that. Today, there
are server side controls called
validators in web forms that
you can use to drop
on your page. That gives
you pre-canned validation facilities. Then
they, you tie them to
the controls on the page,
like a text box, and
you say this is required.
But if you actually look
at what gets admitted into
the HTML markup, in order
to facilitate the client side
validation, there was a whole
lot of JavaScript that gets
you a bigger raise of,
of stuff that gets spewed
out into your HTML page
when you use those things.
So we're looking at cleaning
that up by using the
same mechanism that MVC does
today, whereby we rely on
jQuery validate to provide the
client side validation sort of
base framework. And then we
use the HTML five data
dash attributes to inject the
metadata required to drive those
valid, that validation framework into
the page directly onto the
controls that you want to
validate. Now, when I say
HTML five, I'll say immediately
for people who have, who
were thinking, well, shouldn't have
five in web forms. What
does that mean for backwards
compatibility? People have to remember
that HTML five isn't isn't
just about adding new stuff
to HTML. It's also about
rationalization of things that were
already supported by lots of
browsers and just making them
part of the standard. And
one of those things with
something called expando attributes or
expando properties, or many, I
think many web developers have
discovered that they can just
add extra properties to the
HTML elements. And while the
browser may not understand them
and they don't won't get
validated by any HTML validator
there, you can happily access
those values from the Java,
from JavaScript using the Dom.
Once that HTML is serialized
or pallets, I should say.
So the data dash spec
inside HTML five is just
a formalization of that. So
it just says, well, any
attribute on any element in
an HTML five document that
begins with data dash and
then something else is totally
valid, just, just, that's an
attribute that you can put
anywhere. And the, the intent
for you is to put
any values in there that
you want to be able
to essentially harvest using JavaScript
once the page is loaded.
So people don't need to
be worried about that, not
working in, in older browsers
that will work just fine.
And we're looking to take
advantage of that to sort
of clean up some of
the JavaScript that we output
in terms of validation in
the next, in the next
version Web forms. Is there
something fundamental about web forms
that, that makes people think
it makes bad markup or
bad JavaScript, or is it
certain controls, output, different things?
You don't see what I'm
saying? Like, is there a
control I should avoid? Or
how could I make, can
I make a web forms
application where I can say
view source and have it
be Well, you can definitely
do that. I mean, and
this is some of the
talks that taste them and
I have given them the
past. They've been very much
about this point. Now there
were in the past some
controls that we would recommend
you completely avoid because they
just didn't give you the
control that you needed to
stop it out. Putting things
like wrapping it in a
table tag. Now back when
these controls were originally developed,
and we think back, this
is talking six, seven years
ago. Now that wasn't really
frowned upon using tables for
layout in HTML was sort
of the flavor of the
day, but we know better
than doing that now. So
as we mentioned before and.net
for almost all of that
was cleaned up. If you
use the.net for control rendering
mode, you, you will find
you find it very difficult
to find a table in
your Mark out in your
markup that was generated by
asp.net, unless it's for tabula
data, say the app would
have a grid view. So
it's actually a lot easier
than it was back then.
And then especially now you
can control your view state
much more granually as well
and control your client ID.
It's actually much simpler to
get cleaner markup. Now, before
that, we use some third
party or out of band
libraries, I guess, to, to
help doing this. There was
something called the, the CSS
friendly control adapters asp.net is
built on this foundation of
an, of a, of an
adaptable control rendering system. So
even if your button control
doesn't output, what you want
it to output, there is
actually the mechanism for you
to completely change what that
outputs. And there were a
couple of ways you can
do that and you can
subclass the button control and
then override his random method,
which is kind of the
brute force approach. Or you
can register a controller adapter,
which it's a little bit
easier, perhaps not an awful
lot easier, but essentially maintains
the behavior, the control, but
at the point where it
gets rendered, it'll, it'll sort
of shell into your logic
to, to, to go ahead
and render that control instead
of using the default rendering.
But you, you really don't
have to do that much
these days, if you're using.net
for, because of just how
much better the markup is
now that said, you don't
have to use the server
controls. I mean, we talk
about web forms a lot,
but there's nothing stopping you,
writing asp.net pages. So ASP
X pages and using user
controls and master pages, and
that whole sort of front
end mechanism there, but you
don't have to use a
grid view if you don't
want to. There's nothing wrong
with using a repeater or
a list view that is
fully templatable and, and, and
handwriting your markup to get
the output that you want.
I mean, you still get
benefits in doing that. The
list view, for example, has
a lot of behavior that
is completely separate from the
way it is displayed. So
the list view supports paging
and editing and inserting and
different templates for all those
different modes. And you don't
have to worry about controlling
what mode is currently in.
It'll just do that using
the command mechanism inside asp.net
web forms, but you still
get full control over the
markup. So there is a
middle ground between, you know,
just giving, giving the web
forms, pages and controls full
control over what they, I
should say, just delegating to
them to say, Hey, you
render all the markup. I
don't really care about that.
Just give me the behavior.
And then the other side
where you don't use any
controls whatsoever. And you're just
back to basically writing classic
ASP, but with ASP X
inline.net pages, there is a
middle ground, I think, and,
you know, the framework web
forms, MVP, or that taste
them. And I put together
was really designed about hitting
that middle ground about, you
know, there is some value
in using some of the
buildings controls and web forms,
but if you want a
little bit more control around
testability and around coding and
patents, then this framework can
help you do that. Do
you do by default, when
you upgrade from that done
to done at three, five,
two done at four, do
your asp.net pages automatically start
out putting better markup, or
do you have to do
something to tell them that
that's okay, You have to
do something. Unfortunately, that would
be a breaking change. And
we try to, we try
to avoid breaking changes when
they're associated with an upgrade
process. So if you start
a new.net for a project,
you will get the new
rendering. But if you upgrade
you, won't now to change
that you need to change
the setting in your web.com
fig file. And you will
in doing so. You will
probably find that there will
be things that break, because
most generally what happens is
people take a dependency at
some point in the development
of an application of a
web forms application on the
markup that's being admitted. They
might write some custom JavaScript
to do something on the
client and, or they might
have some CSS that's targeting
the markup that used to
be outputted by web forms.
And now when they change
the rendering mode, they're going
to have to go and
change that stuff as well.
Okay. Okay. So what, what
kind of am I going
to run into though? Like,
is there a, is there
a limit to what I
can do in web forms?
As far as making few
sores pretty, could, could someone
create a web forms application
that you wouldn't be able
to tell it was web
forums? I mean, you've got
routing also, right? You can
make pretty URLs and web
forms. I mean, there are,
there are a couple of
limitations. One is around the,
the form tag now web
forms is, is geared around
the concept of a server
form. And you'll see that
in the markup of any
web forms page, you'll have
a form run out equal
server tag. You could only
have one of those per
page and it's, it's not
per control. It's not permit,
it's actually per output page.
You can only have one
of those now that does
limit what you can do
in terms of building a
multi-form pages. And certainly MVC
doesn't have this limitation at
all, because it really has
no concept of a service
side form. It just looks
at the raw request information
coming in. Now that doesn't
mean you can't use multiple
forms in web forms, but
you just, you can't have
more than one service side
form. So then the following
question from that to go,
okay, well, what's the limitations
of not having a service
side form. If I have
a service side form and
then a client side form,
what can I not put
in the client side form?
Now, there are certain asp.net
server controls that require being
inside a server form to
work properly. And they'll actually
throw an exception if you
put them outside of a
server form. But I would,
I would certainly recommend people
if they building UIs that
have multiple web based UIs
with both forms that have
multiple points on the page
that require input, then you
would certainly it's worth looking
at using multiple forms. If
those other portions of UI
don't require the complex server
controls, you know, to surrender
those. And at a classic
example is if you have
a search box at the
top of your, in the,
in the header of your
website, there's really no point
having that search box inside
the server form for asp.net
web forms. And you actually
have to work around that
sometimes because if you have
one form in your HTML,
then the, the action of
the enter key in the
HTML becomes an issue because
an HTML form T generally
expects to have a single
submit button. And when you
hit enter inside any field
in that form, that's the
button that gets submitted. Now,
when you look@asp.net web forms,
it was kind of designed
to have a single web
server form. And then you
could put as many buttons
on there as you liked,
and then it would use
the, the, it would actually
figure out which button you
clicked based on a number
of different factors that can,
it couldn't do, but that
was all very much based
on clicking. If you just
want to be able to
type in something and hit
enter, you have to set
extra properties in web forms
to sort of say, Hey,
this is the button that
I want to be in
a verdict climates clicked, or
habits click event raised when
the user hits enter while
I'm in this text box
and it uses JavaScript to
do that. So that's really
not the most elegant way
of doing that. If you're
just putting a search box
at the top of your
page, put it in a
different form, put it in
the client side form. It's
just a text box in
a submit button. And then
you don't have to worry
about that when the user
is in that text box
and they type in the
hit enter, it's automatically going
to use that, that button,
that client's eye button there,
because it's in the same
form. Yeah, yeah. I've actually,
I've actually done that myself
on my own site. Cause
dusk blog, the blogging engine
that I run has a
single service side form, of
course. And then I've got
some search boxes around the
outside and I do some,
I'm just, you know, one
or two lines of JavaScript
to pull that information out
of those form fields and
then put them through the,
the process regularly. Well, it
sounds like you guys are
thinking a lot about web
forms. I'm kind of surprised.
You're thinking about pretty, pretty
deeply are we going to
see some web forms, cool
stuff in the next couple
of months or the next
year? Yeah, I certainly hope
so. I mean, as I
said, we've mentioned a few
things that we're working on
for the next version, but
I think there are other
things that we're working on
that we hope to get
out before then. So certainly
some things around our, our
move to jQuery as our
preferred Ajax model expect to
see some more information about
that in the coming months
and not just information, but
hopefully some more concrete things
that you can actually use
inside web forms, as well
as MVC, of course, to
do with Ajax and jQuery
and things like that. We're
obviously keeping a close eye
on HTML five as well.
We, we get this question
a lot about, you know,
when is web phone's going
to be upgraded restroom or
five. The, the truth is
there's really nothing stopping. You're
using HTML five today. I
mean, HTML five is a
kind of a horrible term
because it encompasses so many
different things. And we really
don't know what customers mean
all of the time when
they ask that. But in
terms of concrete things, you
know, certainly the next version
of the templates that we
build will use, you know,
some HTML five as much
as we can. That makes
sense. And we'll, you know,
we're always looking at what
the browsers are, where the
current browsers caught up to
and what makes sense to,
to add as functionality and
the base framework to take
advantage of whatever new capabilities
that the browsers have. I
think coming up, you'll probably
see some talks there about
web forms and HTML five
working together, and maybe some
talks about more about what
we're going to, we're planning
to do with the next
version of web forms as
well. So I think, I
think you'll see us talking
more about it, like we
are today. And if you
come along to our conferences,
you'll, you'll see us continue
to talk about it as
well. Very cool. Well, thanks
a lot for taking the
time to educate me on
what's going on in web
forums. I appreciate it. Thanks
for having me. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week.